Automation hub, team and org scoped automations (#2959)
wandb/docs: models/automations/automation-events.mdx

---
import MultiTenantAndDedicatedCloudOnly from "/snippets/_includes/multi-tenant-and-dedicated-cloud-only.mdx";

An automation can start when a specific event occurs within an Organization, a Team, a Registry, a Registry collection, or a project. This page describes the events that can trigger an automation within each scope, so you can choose the right trigger when you configure an automation. Learn more about automations in the [Automations overview](/models/automations) or [Create an automation](/models/automations/create-automations).

Scopes are hierarchical: an Organization contains Teams, which contain projects and registries, which contain collections. An automation observes its event across everything in its scope, including projects, registries, and collections created later. A single event can match automations at more than one scope. Each matching automation triggers independently.

<Note>
To protect against excessive triggering at broad scopes, W&B applies a rate limit and a cooldown per automation. These safeguards can delay or skip repeated triggers of the same automation.

> </Note>

Author: Added in a7f01cb: an availability note on this page stating the Team and Organization scopes are available on Multi-tenant Cloud and Dedicated Cloud (Server v0.83.0+), while Registry and Project scopes are available on all deployment types.

---
import MultiTenantAndDedicatedCloudOnly from "/snippets/_includes/multi-tenant-and-dedicated-cloud-only.mdx";

> An automation can start when a specific event occurs within an Organization, a Team, a Registry, a Registry collection, or a project. This page describes the events that can trigger an automation within each scope, so you can choose the right trigger when you configure an automation. Learn more about automations in the [Automations overview](/models/automations) or [Create an automation](/models/automations/create-automations).

Author: ```suggestion
An automation starts when a specific event occurs within a given scope: an organization, a team, a project, a registry, or a collection. This page describes the events that can trigger an automation within each scope, so you can choose the right trigger when you configure an automation. Learn more about automations in the [Automations overview](/models/automations) or [Create an automation](/models/automations/create-automations).
```

> Scopes are hierarchical: an Organization contains Teams, which contain projects and registries, which contain collections. An automation observes its event across everything in its scope, including projects, registries, and collections created later. A single event can match automations at more than one scope. Each matching automation triggers independently.

Reviewer: I'm probably being pedantic here, but do both projects and registries contain collections equally? Or just one or the other?

Author: I believe only registries have collections. @tonyyli-wandb can you keep me honest?

Reviewer 2: Yes, in terms of product/docs terminology -- only Registries contain Collections

(In terms of underlying code, data models, and the user-facing SDK API, both projects and registries can contain an `ArtifactCollection`.  But IIUC that's less relevant here.)

<Note>
The Team and Organization scopes are available on W&B Multi-tenant Cloud and on W&B Dedicated Cloud (Server v0.83.0 and later). The Registry and Project scopes are available on all deployment types.
</Note>

<Note>

> To protect against excessive triggering at broad scopes, W&B applies a rate limit and a cooldown per automation. These safeguards can delay or skip repeated triggers of the same automation.

Reviewer: imo, this doesn't really need to be in a note. It's a normal part of the feature's behavior.

> <Note>
> To protect against excessive triggering at broad scopes, W&B applies a rate limit and a cooldown per automation. These safeguards can delay or skip repeated triggers of the same automation.
> </Note>

Author: ```suggestion
To protect against excessive triggering at broad scopes, W&B applies a rate limit and a cooldown per automation. These safeguards can delay or skip repeated triggers of the same automation.
```

## Organization

The following sections describe the scopes and events for an automation scoped to an Organization.

> ### Scopes

Reviewer: not a deal-breaker or anything, but I feel like this section could be reworked into a table that is more easily referenced.
